DEVELOPMENT.md, before:

# GETTING STARTED

Ontime consists of 3 distinct parts

- __client__: A React app for Ontime's UI and web clients
- __electron__: An electron app which facilitates the cross-platform distribution of Ontime
- __server__: A node application which handles the domains services and integrations

The steps below will assume you have locally installed the necessary dependencies.
Other dependencies will be installed as part of the setup

- __node__ (~20)
- __pnpm__ (~9)
- __docker__ (only necessary to run and build docker images)

## LOCAL DEVELOPMENT

The electron app is only necessary to distribute an installable version of the app and is not required for local
development.
Locally, we would need to run both the React client and the node.js server in development mode

From the project root, run the following commands

- __Install the project dependencies__ by running `pnpm i`
- __Run dev mode__ by running `turbo dev`

### Debugging backend

To debug backend code in Node.js:

- Open two separate terminals and navigate to the `apps/client` and `apps/server` directories.
- In each terminal, run the command `pnpm dev` to start the development servers for both the client and server
  applications.
- If you need to set breakpoints and inspect the code execution, enable Node.js inspect mode by
  running `pnpm dev:inspect`.

## TESTING

Generally we have 2 types of tests.

- Unit tests for functions that contain business logic
- End-to-end tests for core features

### Unit tests

Unit tests are contained in mostly all the apps and packages (client, server and utils)

You can run unit tests by running turbo `turbo test:pipeline` from the project root.
This will run all tests and close test runner.

Alternatively you can navigate to an app or project and run `pnpm test` to run those tests in watch mode

### E2E tests

E2E tests are in a separate package. On running, [playwright](https://playwright.dev/) will spin up an instance of the
webserver to test against
These tests also run against a separate version of the DB (test-db)

Before running the E2E, you should first build the project with `pnpm build:local`.

You can run playwright tests from project root with `pnpm e2e`

When writing tests, it can be handy to run playwright in interactive mode with `pnpm e2e:i`. You would need to manually
start the webserver with `pnpm dev:server`

Some other useful commands

- `pnpm e2e --ui` open playwright UI
- `pnpm e2e --headed` run tests with a visible browser window

## CREATE AN INSTALLABLE FILE (Windows | MacOS | Linux)

Ontime uses Electron to distribute the application.
You can generate a distribution for your OS by running the following steps.

From the project root, run the following commands

- __Install the project dependencies__ by running `pnpm i`
- __Build the UI and server__ by running `turbo build:electron`
- __Create the package__ by running `turbo dist-win`, `turbo dist-mac` or `turbo dist-linux`

The build distribution assets will be at `.apps/electron/dist`

Note: The MacOS build will only work in CI, locally it will fail due to notarisation issues.
Use the `turbo dist-mac:local` command to build a MacOS distribution locally.

## DOCKER

Ontime provides a docker-compose file to aid with building and running docker images.
While it should allow for a generic setup, it might need to be modified to fit your infrastructure.

From the project root, run the following commands

- __Build docker image from__ by running `docker build -t getontime/ontime .`
- __Run docker image from compose__ by running `docker-compose up -d`

Other useful commands

- __List running processes__ by running `docker ps`
- __Kill running process__ by running `docker kill <process-id>`

## General Info

# APP Building

We build the app from app.js for almost all applications. The output file will still be named index.cjs. This is because of Electron.
Building the app from index.ts only applies for applications that don't use electron. index.ts will take over the initialization of the server and UI when electron isn't present.

Commit message:

feat: add documentation for chakra-ui typegen

DEVELOPMENT.md, after:

# GETTING STARTED

Ontime consists of 3 distinct parts

- __client__: A React app for Ontime's UI and web clients
- __electron__: An electron app which facilitates the cross-platform distribution of Ontime
- __server__: A node application which handles the domains services and integrations

The steps below will assume you have locally installed the necessary dependencies.
Other dependencies will be installed as part of the setup

- __node__ (~20)
- __pnpm__ (~9)
- __docker__ (only necessary to run and build docker images)

## LOCAL DEVELOPMENT

The electron app is only necessary to distribute an installable version of the app and is not required for local
development.
Locally, we would need to run both the React client and the node.js server in development mode

From the project root, run the following commands

- __Install the project dependencies__ by running `pnpm i`
- __Run dev mode__ by running `turbo dev`

### Chakra UI Variant Types
You may notice Typescript complaining about invalid values for the `variant` prop on some of the components. To
remedy this, you'll need to generate those types locally:

- __Navigate from the project root to the `client` dir__ by running `cd apps/client`
- __Generate the variant types__ by running `pnpm typegen`

__Note:__ Run the command whenever you add or remove variants from the `theme.ts` config. Consult the [Chakra UI documentation](https://www.chakra-ui.com/docs/get-started/cli#chakra-typegen)
for more information

### Debugging backend

To debug backend code in Node.js:

- Open two separate terminals and navigate to the `apps/client` and `apps/server` directories.
- In each terminal, run the command `pnpm dev` to start the development servers for both the client and server
  applications.
- If you need to set breakpoints and inspect the code execution, enable Node.js inspect mode by
  running `pnpm dev:inspect`.

## TESTING

Generally we have 2 types of tests.

- Unit tests for functions that contain business logic
- End-to-end tests for core features

### Unit tests

Unit tests are contained in mostly all the apps and packages (client, server and utils)

You can run unit tests by running turbo `turbo test:pipeline` from the project root.
This will run all tests and close test runner.

Alternatively you can navigate to an app or project and run `pnpm test` to run those tests in watch mode

### E2E tests

E2E tests are in a separate package. On running, [playwright](https://playwright.dev/) will spin up an instance of the
webserver to test against
These tests also run against a separate version of the DB (test-db)

Before running the E2E, you should first build the project with `pnpm build:local`.

You can run playwright tests from project root with `pnpm e2e`

When writing tests, it can be handy to run playwright in interactive mode with `pnpm e2e:i`. You would need to manually
start the webserver with `pnpm dev:server`

Some other useful commands

- `pnpm e2e --ui` open playwright UI
- `pnpm e2e --headed` run tests with a visible browser window

## CREATE AN INSTALLABLE FILE (Windows | MacOS | Linux)

Ontime uses Electron to distribute the application.
You can generate a distribution for your OS by running the following steps.

From the project root, run the following commands

- __Install the project dependencies__ by running `pnpm i`
- __Build the UI and server__ by running `turbo build:electron`
- __Create the package__ by running `turbo dist-win`, `turbo dist-mac` or `turbo dist-linux`

The build distribution assets will be at `.apps/electron/dist`

Note: The MacOS build will only work in CI, locally it will fail due to notarisation issues.
Use the `turbo dist-mac:local` command to build a MacOS distribution locally.

## DOCKER

Ontime provides a docker-compose file to aid with building and running docker images.
While it should allow for a generic setup, it might need to be modified to fit your infrastructure.

From the project root, run the following commands

- __Build docker image from__ by running `docker build -t getontime/ontime .`
- __Run docker image from compose__ by running `docker-compose up -d`

Other useful commands

- __List running processes__ by running `docker ps`
- __Kill running process__ by running `docker kill <process-id>`

## General Info

# APP Building

We build the app from app.js for almost all applications. The output file will still be named index.cjs. This is because of Electron.
Building the app from index.ts only applies for applications that don't use electron. index.ts will take over the initialization of the server and UI when electron isn't present.
